### An essay about RESTful routes ###

7 routes: Index, show, new, create, edit, update, destroy

4 methods (HTTP verbs): GET, POST, PATCH, DELETE

REST is a convention that helps standardize naming routes and the controller actions that handle them. Routes are responsible for taking types of request methods, sometimes referred to as HTTP verbs, and deciding what information to send back. There are 4 main HTTP verbs: GET, POST, PUT(PATCH) and DELETE. Therefore, a RESTful route is the mapping between HTTP verbs to the CRUD controller actions, create, read, update or delete. The four CRUD actions are broken up into seven routes: show, index, new, create, edit, update and destroy. 

Let's assume we have a Blog app. We should have 7 routes, each of which falls into one of the CRUD categories. Each route corresponds directly to a specific url convention. For example the index of all blog posts is /blog, which is a GET request from the client to the server. GET routes are all routes that usually render some HTML content to a web browser. You can also perform a POST request on the same url, /blog, but the difference here is POST is submitting data sent from the client to the server/database. Similarly, you can perform a GET request on /blog/:id and that will show (retrieve information) on a particular blog post, OR you can perform a PUT or PATCH request on /blog/:id and submit some new information to the server about a particular blog post. The "index" and "show" routes are for retrieving and presenting information to the client, and they are both GET requests. If you want to create a new blog post, /blog/new, you GET request a form to create a new dog. When the client submits the form, that performs a POST request to create a new dog. To retreive or GET an edit form, /blog/:id/editl will show the edit form, and perform a PATCH request to /blog/:id to update that particular blog.

DELETE is its own unique HTTP request, and that removes information from the database, and the url naming convention for a Blog app is /blog/:id/delete created by the "destroy" controller action. 